.TH PREG_SETOPT 3 2022-07-09 libregutils "libregutils manual"
.SH NAME
preg_setopt, preg_delopt \- set/delete regex options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <regutils.h>
.PP
.BI "void preg_setopt(Preg *" reg ", Preg_opt " opt ", int " val )
.BI "void preg_detopt(Preg *" reg ", Preg_opt " opt ", int " val )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
.PP
With
.BR preg_setopt ()
you can set various options to the
.I reg
structure, before performing a regex action.
.I reg
should be initialized with
.BR preg_init (3)
before passed to
.BR preg_setopt ().
.PP
.I opt
may be one of the following:
.TP
.B PREG_CFLAGS
This option sets various compilation flags for the regex pattern.
.IR val 's
are passed directly to the regex compiler (see
.BR regcomp (3)).
Supported values are at least the following:
.BR REG_EXTENDED , " REG_ICASE " and " REG_NEWLINE".
A bitwise-or of two or more flags is also valid.
.B REG_EXTENDED
is activated by default.
For a more thorough
explanation of their utility see
.BR regex (3).
Please note that
.B REG_NOSUB
is also defined by POSIX, but not supported and ignored by libregutils.
However, the
.B PREG_NOSTRINGS
flag of the
.B PREG_UFLAGS
option provides a similar feature.
.TP
.B PREG_UFLAGS
Combined with a
.I val
of
.B PREG_NOSTRINGS
, this option will cause
.BR preg_match (3)
to omit storing the matched strings.
As a result,
.BR preg_getmatch (3)
will always return NULL.
.TP
.B PREG_MIN
This option specifies the minimum match to be returned, with 0 being the first.
Any preceding matches are skipped.
Its default value is 0.
.TP
.B PREG_LIMIT
This option specifies the maximum number of matches to be returned.
Its default value is \-1 which stands for "unlimited".
.PP
.BR preg_detopt ()
deletes an option set by
.BR preg_setopt ()
or set by default. The semantics are the same with
.BR preg_setopt ()
, however only the
.B PREG_CFLAGS
and
.B PREG_UFLAGS
options are supported.
Any other value is simply ignored.
For example, to perform a basic (BRE) regular expression match, one has
to call:
.IP
.BI preg_delopt( reg ", PREG_CFLAGS, REG_EXTENDED)
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR preg_setopt()
and
.BR preg_delopt()
return no value.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR preg_init (3),
.BR preg_match (3),
.BR preg_replace (3),
.BR preg_split (3)
